---
layout: post
title: 常用工具介绍
date: 2019-11-27 17:34:46
description: 常用工具介绍
tag: visualstudio

---
# visualstudio常用工具介绍

## 简介

## 工具集

### rc.exe

rc.exe是微软资源编译器，将.rc文件便以为.res文件。

RC is the command-line version of the standard Microsoft SDK resource compiler. It accepts a resource script file (.RC) as input and produces a resource object file (.RES) as output.

Both C++Builder and Delphi give you a choice of resource compilers. On the Project > Options > Resource Compiler dialog box, you can select either of the following:

BRCC32.exe, the C++Builder resource compiler
RC.exe, the Microsoft platform SDK Resource Compiler
RC supports Unicode characters in resource files and file names, as well as new Vista resource types such as icons with alpha channel.

The actual file name of the RC compiler in the RAD Studio environment is CGRC.exe.

### cl.exe

cl.exe是微软的编译器，将源文件编译成obj文件。

cl.exe is a tool that controls the Microsoft C++ (MSVC) C and C++ compilers and linker. cl.exe can be run only on operating systems that support Microsoft Visual Studio for Windows.

## link.exe

link.exe是微软的连接器，将obj文件链接成 dll 或 exe 文件

LINK.exe links Common Object File Format (COFF) object files and libraries to create an executable (.exe) file or a dynamic-link library (DLL).

## 参考资料

1. [rc.exe, the Microsoft SDK Resource Compiler](http://docwiki.embarcadero.com/RADStudio/Rio/en/RC.EXE,_the_Microsoft_SDK_Resource_Compiler)
2. [Use the Microsoft C++ toolset from the command line](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/building-on-the-command-line?view=vs-2019)
3. [Linker options](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/reference/linker-options?view=vs-2019)
4. [Compiler Options](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/reference/compiler-options?view=vs-2019)
